Cyberattack vulnerabilities on Microgrids.
Smart grids are upgraded versions of traditional electric grids, equipped with advanced technologies like 
sensors, communication networks, operations automation. With this new upgrade, comes cyberattack 
vulnerabilities, A successful cyberattack on smart grid can have significant consequences on the power 
system and the community it serves such as power outages, financial losses, safety risks and national 
security risks, etc.
Most of the gridâ€™s vulnerabilities are caused due to Communication Networks where Modern grids are 
equipped with multiple communication technologies, which create a challenge to implement a global 
cybersecurity policy. Plus, in recent years there has been an increase in communication to external 
networks for data exchanges to maintain performance. However, it creates a vulnerability on exchange 
communication line. Besides, more vulnerabilities are introduced by internet exposure, where internet 
provides real-time data to grid like weather forecast and fuel prices for optimal energy management and 
profits. According to a report by Idaho National Laboratory, A survey composed of electric utility 
respondents, found 41 percent of total security incidents were related to insecure IT network 
(https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/cyber-threat-and-vulnerability-analysis-us-electric-sector).
Another major cause for grid vulnerability is Automation Devices. The main advantage of automation is 
it increases the efficiency of operation and eliminated human-error factor. However, these devices have 
communication capabilities over network, which makes this device prime targets for attackers to gain 
access to control systems. In an attack in 2016 on Ukrainian power grid, attackers send malware through 
emails to power grid workers, through network they were able to access critical control systems lead to 
power outrage for six hours. (https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/ics-alerts/ir-alert-h-16-056-01). 
Application of Machine Learning in Cyberattack detection on Microgrids